import { Meta, Canvas } from '@storybook/addon-docs';
import { YMaps, Map, Placemark } from '../src';

<Meta title="Core Principles" />

# Core Principles

<br />

## Modular Approach

This library heavily utilizes Yandex.Maps API module system to make amount of
downloaded and executed code from Yandex.Maps as minimal as possible. There are
some pros and cons to this system and there are also a way to opt out of this
completely.

By default this library will download only the modules that are actually
rendered on the page. If `<Placemark />` or `<ObjectManager />` is not mounted
in the page, corresponding would not be downloaded.

That means that the amount of code your clients will download and execute will
be as minimal as possible. On the other hand that means that instead of getting
a lot of familiar Yandex.Maps API modules by default, now you need to really
think about what you are using on the page.

In the example below, we are mounting Map with a Placemark on the page:

<Canvas>
  <YMaps>
    <Map defaultState={{ center: [55.751574, 37.573856], zoom: 9 }}>
      <Placemark defaultGeometry={[55.751574, 37.573856]} />
    </Map>
  </YMaps>
</Canvas>

You can notice that all map controls that are usually provided on the map by
default are missing here. This is happening because they are not part of the
"core" Yandex.Maps module, not they are part of the Map or Placemark module.

### Loading Modules with `modules` Prop

Let's fix this by specifying which controls we want exactly in the map `state`
and then let's use the `modules` prop to load the ones we need:

<Canvas>
  <YMaps>
    <Map
      defaultState={{
        center: [55.75, 37.57],
        zoom: 9,
        controls: ['zoomControl', 'fullscreenControl'],
      }}
      modules={['control.ZoomControl', 'control.FullscreenControl']}
    >
      <Placemark defaultGeometry={[55.75, 37.57]} />
    </Map>
  </YMaps>
</Canvas>

Nice! Now we have controls on the map and we also avoided downloading the full
package of Yandex.Maps API.

All components in this library support `modules` prop, that will allow you to
download additional modules when they are needed.

Let's add another one to the example above. This time we will add balloon to the
placemark. Balloon module is not downloaded with the base minimum bundle of
Yandex.Maps API, so to actually see ballon we need to specify balloon addon as a
module on the Placemark component.

<Canvas>
  <YMaps>
    <Map
      defaultState={{
        center: [55.75, 37.57],
        zoom: 9,
        controls: ['zoomControl', 'fullscreenControl'],
      }}
      modules={['control.ZoomControl', 'control.FullscreenControl']}
    >
      <Placemark
        modules={['geoObject.addon.balloon']}
        defaultGeometry={[55.75, 37.57]}
        properties={{
          balloonContentBody:
            'This is balloon loaded by the Yandex.Maps API module system',
        }}
      />
    </Map>
  </YMaps>
</Canvas>

### Loading Modules With YMaps Provider `query` Prop

Manually specifying required modules is not the only way to load them. You can
also take advantage of `load` option when you are specifying `query` on your
Provider component.

This option is part of Yandex.Maps API request and can be used to define what
modules you want to load right away with the Yandex.Maps API.

Lets see how the previous example could be changed to use this option:

<Canvas>
  <YMaps
    query={{
      ns: 'use-load-option',
      load: 'Map,Placemark,control.ZoomControl,control.FullscreenControl,geoObject.addon.balloon',
    }}
  >
    <Map
      defaultState={{
        center: [55.75, 37.57],
        zoom: 9,
        controls: ['zoomControl', 'fullscreenControl'],
      }}
    >
      <Placemark
        defaultGeometry={[55.75, 37.57]}
        properties={{
          balloonContentBody:
            'This is balloon loaded by the Yandex.Maps API module system',
        }}
      />
    </Map>
  </YMaps>
</Canvas>

Notice how we removed all `modules` props from all components and used
`query.load` prop instead to specify all modules that are required.

Yandex.Maps API default value for this option is `package.full`. Setting
`query.load` to `'package.full'` will set this library to the mode that is
completely matching the default Yandex.Maps API behavior

You can learn more about [Yandex.Maps API on-demand module system][5.3.1] and
[API loading parameters][5.3.2] in Yandex.Maps documentation.

[5.3.1]:
  https://tech.yandex.com/maps/doc/jsapi/2.1/dg/concepts/modules-docpage/#require
[5.3.2]:
  https://tech.yandex.com/maps/doc/jsapi/2.1/dg/concepts/load-docpage/#param

## Controlled and Uncontrolled Components

Important React pattern that you should be aware of when using this library is
controlled and uncontrolled components. This pattern is all about who is
responsible for handling updates and storing components state.

Applied to this library, that means that based on which props you are using,
either Yandex.Maps API or your application will be responsible for being the
source of truth for your map objects.

In the example below, map state (more specifically zoom and coordinates) is
controlled by application on the first map component, but is not controlled by
application on the second map component. When you click the button, first map
zoom and coordinates will be updated, but the second map will preserve its
state. This happens because instead of `state` prop, we are using `defaultState`
prop.

```jsx
<>
  {() => {
    const [zoom, setZoom] = React.useState(9);

    const mapState = React.useMemo(
      () => ({ center: [55.75, 37.57], zoom }),
      [zoom]
    );

    return (
      <YMaps>
        <>
          <table>
            <tbody>
              <tr>
                <th>Controlled Map</th>
                <th>Uncontrolled Map</th>
              </tr>
              <tr>
                <td>
                  <Map state={mapState} />
                </td>
                <td>
                  <Map defaultState={mapState} />
                </td>
              </tr>
            </tbody>
          </table>
          <p>
            <button onClick={() => setZoom((zoom) => (zoom === 9 ? 12 : 9))}>
              Toggle map zoom
            </button>
          </p>
        </>
      </YMaps>
    );
  }}
</>
```

Every prop on every map object is this library supports the `default` version
(e.g, `state` and `defaultState`, `options` and `defaultOptions`, `properties`
and `defaultProperties`, `geometry` and `defaultGeometry`). By choosing to use
`default` version you are opting out of this library updating map objects when
the props are changed.

As mentioned in the "What Is Supported" section, there is no way to prevent
Yandex.Maps from updating maps objects state completely, so it is very easy to
go out of sync if you are using these components in a controlled way and not
synchronizing the state back to your application state.

From the personal experience, you would want to use `default` props for most of
the cases in your application.

If you want to know more about controlled and uncontrolled components, there are
a few useful links from React documentation:

- [Glossary: Controlled vs. Uncontroled Components][4.2.1]
- [Uncontroled Components][4.2.2]
- [Forms: Controlled Components][4.2.3]

[4.2.1]:
  https://reactjs.org/docs/glossary.html#controlled-vs-uncontrolled-components
[4.2.2]: https://reactjs.org/docs/uncontrolled-components.html
[4.2.3]: https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html#controlled-components

## React Context. Provider and Consumer Components

This library uses React Context API to provide Yandex.Maps API to every
component, that needs it.

This library also uses React Context API so parent Yandex.Maps objects (e.g.,
Map, Clusterer, ObjectManager) could provide children Yandex.Maps objects with a
parent instance.

If you want to know more about React Context and Provider/Consumer components,
you can check out [React documentation section on the topic][4.1.1].

Make sure that you used YMaps provider component and all Yandex.Maps objects are
inside this component tree. This library will throw an error, if the Yandex.Maps
context is missing.

[4.1.1]: https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html
